Proposed updates to the WCAG2ICT work statement (#942)
w3c/wai-website: pages/about/groups/task-forces/wcag2ict/work-statement.md

## Status

> This work statement was approved by the AG Chairs WG on 24 January 2024. The task force is active.

Author: ```suggestion
This work statement was approved by the AG Chairs WG on 24 January 2025. The task force is active.
```

> This work statement was [approved by the AG WG on @@insert date approved and update URL@@](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/w3c-wai-gl/2022AprJun/0280.html). The task force is active.

Reviewer: @daniel-montalvo The approval date and related email URL need update.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This work statement was approved by the AG Chairs WG on 24 January 2024. The task force is active.
```

WG approval is no longer required. Chairs approve Work Statements. Updated accordingly.

Reviewer: @daniel-montalvo @maryjom I am reopening this conversation since the current version still states the work statement was approved on 24 January 2024. Isn't that a typo?

Author: @remibetin I have just committed the change to 2025. Thanks for catching this.

The work statement describes the WCAG2ICT Phase 1 objectives that have been completed and the updated Phase 2 objectives for the WCAG2ICT Note.

> NOTE: This work is mentioned in the [Other Deliverables section of the current AG WG Charter.](https://www.w3.org/2019/12/ag-charter#ig-other-deliverables) The continuation of the work is also included in the [current AG WG Charter](https://www.w3.org/2023/11/ag-charter). The WCAG2ICT Task Force plans that future AG WG charters include further maintenance of this important guidance.

Author: ```suggestion
NOTE: This work is mentioned in the [Other Deliverables section of the current AG WG Charter.](https://www.w3.org/2023/11/ag-charter#ig-other-deliverables) The continuation of the work is also included in the [current AG WG Charter](https://www.w3.org/2023/11/ag-charter). The WCAG2ICT Task Force plans that future AG WG charters include further maintenance of this important guidance.
```

> NOTE: This work is mentioned in the [Other Deliverables section of the current AG WG Charter.](https://www.w3.org/2019/12/ag-charter#ig-other-deliverables) The continuation of the work is also included in the [current AG WG Charter](https://www.w3.org/2023/11/ag-charter). The WCAG2ICT Task Force plans that future AG WG charters include further maintenance of this important guidance.

Reviewer: > This work is mentioned in the [Other Deliverables section of the current AG WG Charter.](https://www.w3.org/2019/12/ag-charter#ig-other-deliverables) 

FYI, the link points to a previous version of the charter (2019-2023).

## Scope of Work

The work of the task force includes:

*   Determining how to apply each of the new WCAG 2.1 and WCAG 2.2 (hereafter called “WCAG 2.x") guidelines and Levels A, AA, and AAA success criteria to non-Web ICT; this includes provision of additional details for application to closed product software and where applying individual criteria might be difficult and why; and
*   Producing an updated Working Group Note (a form of W3C Technical Report)—following the W3C process under the coordination, review, and approval of the AG WG—that describes:
    *   how each of the new WCAG 2.x A and AA success criteria could apply to non-Web ICT (completed in Phase 1)
    *   how each of the new WCAG 2.x guidelines could apply to non-Web ICT (completed in Phase 1)
    *   clarification of challenges of applying particular WCAG 2.x success criteria to non-web ICT, including closed product software (completed in Phase 1)

>     *   address challenges in [Open issues labeled WCAG2ICT](https://github.com/w3c/wcag2ict/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3Awcag2ict) (completed in Phase 1)

Reviewer: > https://github.com/w3c/wcag2ict/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3Awcag2ict

@daniel-montalvo This link leads to the following warning message on GitHub: "Filter contains 1 issue: Invalid value wcag2ict for label"

Reviewer 2: Thanks for pointing this out @remibetin .

I am deferring this to @maryjom -- I think better to just point to all [Closed issues addressed in phase 1](https://github.com/w3c/wcag2ict/issues/?q=is%3Aissue%20state%3Aclosed), but I'd like to get her thoughts on this.

Author: ```suggestion
    *   address challenges in issues. [See closed issues addressed in Phase 1](https://github.com/w3c/wcag2ict/issues/?q=is%3Aissue%20state%3Aclosed) (completed in Phase 1)
```

NOTE: "suggested changes to success criteria" would not be suggestions to change WCAG itself, but instead to provide language more meaningful in non-web contexts. For example, in criteria where the WCAG normative language uses CSS pixels, the Task Force could provide alternative language more appropriate for non-web technologies.

Explicitly out of scope for the WCAG2ICT Task Force work are:

*   proposing changes to WCAG 2.x
*   developing techniques or interpretations of WCAG 2.x for implementing WCAG 2.x in Web technologies
*   developing any specific, sufficient techniques, including platform-specific techniques, for implementing WCAG 2.x in non-Web ICT, though examples may be in scope
*   determining whether WCAG, as a whole, _should be_ applied to non-web content
*   developing a normative standard or any normative requirements

## Approach

WCAG2ICT is a Task Force of the AG WG, which has oversight over the Task Force to ensure accurate interpretation and representation of WCAG 2.x. The AG WG decision process applies within the group. Draft content is periodically taken to the AG WG for review as it progresses.

> The primary effort of this Task Force is to describe how to interpret WCAG 2.x and its principles, guidelines, success criteria and conformance requirements when applying them to non-web ICT; and evaluating what WCAG Conformance means in the context of non-Web ICT. The resulting Working Group Note will include a discussion of the application of each of the criteria in WCAG 2.x to non-Web ICT, including their interface components and platforms, and the extent to which [WCAG Conformance](http://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG20/#conformance) is meaningful to non-Web ICT.

Author: ```suggestion
The primary effort of this Task Force is to describe how to interpret WCAG 2.x and its principles, guidelines, success criteria and conformance requirements when applying them to non-web ICT; and evaluating what WCAG Conformance means in the context of non-Web ICT. The resulting Working Group Note will include a discussion of the application of each of the criteria in WCAG 2.x to non-Web ICT, including their interface components and platforms, and the extent to which [WCAG Conformance](http://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG22/#conformance) is meaningful to non-Web ICT.
```

> The primary effort of this Task Force is to describe how to interpret WCAG 2.x and its principles, guidelines, success criteria and conformance requirements when applying them to non-web ICT; and evaluating what WCAG Conformance means in the context of non-Web ICT. The resulting Working Group Note will include a discussion of the application of each of the criteria in WCAG 2.x to non-Web ICT, including their interface components and platforms, and the extent to which [WCAG Conformance](http://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG20/#conformance) is meaningful to non-Web ICT.

Reviewer: > [WCAG Conformance](http://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG20/#conformance)

This link points to the "Conformance section" of WCAG **2.0**. Is this intentional?

Author: The content of WCAG conformance hasn't changed in any of the versions. However, I did update the link to go to WCAG 2.2 to ensure links are to the latest.

Reviewer: Thanks @maryjom

    *   develop initial discussion drafts of remaining sections of the Note
    *   develop initial discussion drafts of Note sections
    *   start reporting to the AG WG (schedule and frequency aligned to when groups of SCs are added)
*   Plan: July - June 2023, Actual: August 2023 - July 2024
    *   incorporate first feedback from TF and AG WG into a (publicly visible) Editors’ Draft
    *   publish Draft of the updated Working Group Note through the AG WG
    *   start processing feedback on draft
*   Plan: July - October 2023, Actual: July - October 2024
    *   process feedback on document, further develop and edit WG Note
    *   publish updated formal draft, process comments
*   Plan: November 2023, Actual: October 2024 (with editorial revision November 2024)
    *   Publish updated WCAG2ICT Note

### Phase 2

The next phase of updates will include the remaining in-scope work listed in the [Scope of Work](#scope-of-work) section.

Details of the Phase 2 timeline are found outside of this document in the GitHub WCAG2ICT Wiki. See the [schedule and milestones](https://github.com/w3c/wcag2ict/wiki/Schedule-and-milestones) page.

## Liaisons

> While there are no direct dependencies at the Task Force level (please see [deliverables section of the AG WG Charter](https://www.w3.org/2019/12/ag-charter#deliverables) for more information), the following are participating liaisons, which may change and/or be expanded over time:

Author: ```suggestion
While there are no direct dependencies at the Task Force level (please see [deliverables section of the AG WG Charter](https://www.w3.org/2023/11/ag-charter#deliverables) for more information), the following are participating liaisons, which may change and/or be expanded over time:
```

> While there are no direct dependencies at the Task Force level (please see [deliverables section of the AG WG Charter](https://www.w3.org/2019/12/ag-charter#deliverables) for more information), the following are participating liaisons, which may change and/or be expanded over time:

Reviewer: > please see [deliverables section of the AG WG Charter](https://www.w3.org/2019/12/ag-charter#deliverables) for more information

FYI, the link points to a previous version of the charter (2019-2023)

* Liaisons from worldwide accessibility consulting and advocacy groups
* Liaisons from worldwide standards organizations (ISO, ETSI, CEN and CENELEC, etc.)
* Liaisons from worldwide government and/or regulatory agencies considering referencing the updated WCAG2ICT (U.S. Access Board, EU, Canada, potentially others)

The list of liaisons can be found in the [WCAG2ICT participants](https://www.w3.org/groups/tf/wcag2ict/participants/) list.

## Communication

WCAG2ICT Task Force communications are publicly visible. Communication mechanisms for the WCAG2ICT Task Force include:

1.  [WCAG2ICT Task Force public mailing list](mailto:public-wcag2ict-tf@w3.org), [mailing list archive](http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-wcag2ict-tf/), and [GitHub issue tracker](https://github.com/w3c/wcag2ict/issues)
2.  [WCAG2ICT subpage](/about/groups/task-forces/wcag2ict/) off of the [AG Working Group](/about/groups/agwg/) home page
3.  Weekly (and at times twice-weekly) teleconferences, with teleconference minutes sent to AG WG mailing list and linked from the [WCAG2ICT TF minutes](https://www.w3.org/WAI/GL/task-forces/wcag2ict/minutes) page

> 4.  Regular updates and feedback to AG WG, and to the [WAI Coordination Group](http://www.w3.org/WAI/CG/) (WAI CG), as needed

Reviewer: In the related link, the "WAI Coordination Group" is announced as "Closed". Is this part of the Work statement still relevant?

Reviewer 3: changed WAI Coordination Group to WAI Coordination Call and minor tweaks

## Status

This work statement was [approved by the AG WG on @@insert date approved here@@](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/w3c-wai-gl/2022AprJun/0280.html). The task force is active.

> The work statement describes which of the WCAG2ICT Phase 1 objectives have been completed and what are the Phase 2 objectives for the WCAG2ICT Note.

Author: ```suggestion
The work statement describes the WCAG2ICT Phase 1 objectives that have been completed and the updated Phase 2 objectives for the WCAG2ICT Note.
```

In addition, the task force would like develop content to address misunderstandings of what the WCAG2ICT Note does and does not provide which we hope will address incorrect assumptions and provide an explanation of problems that the WCAG2ICT Note does not solve. How this content will be delivered (as a separate document, web page, or within the WCAG2ICT Note) will be determined once the key content has been developed.

## Scope of Work

The work of the task force includes:

*   Determining how to apply each of the new WCAG 2.1 and WCAG 2.2 (hereafter called “WCAG 2.x") guidelines and Levels A, AA, and AAA success criteria to non-Web ICT; this includes provision of additional details for application to closed product software and where applying individual criteria might be difficult and why; and
*   Producing an updated Working Group Note (a form of W3C Technical Report)—following the W3C process under the coordination, review, and approval of the AG WG—that describes:
    *   how each of the new WCAG 2.x A and AA success criteria could apply to non-Web ICT (completed in Phase 1);
    *   how each of the new WCAG 2.x guidelines could apply to non-Web ICT (completed in Phase 1);

>     *   clarification of challenges of applying particular WCAG 2.x success criteria to non-web ICT, including closed product software (completed) in Phase 1;

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    *   clarification of challenges of applying particular WCAG 2.x success criteria to non-web ICT, including closed product software (completed in Phase 1);
```

    *   recruit TF participants with necessary expertise.
*   Plan: September 2022, Actual: October 2022 
    *   develop a brief requirements document (as inclurporated into the work statement) and obtain agreement from AG WG ;
*   Plan: October 2022 - April 2023, Actual: October 2022 - August 2023 
    *   develop an initial draft with updates to the Working Group Note;
    *   develop initial discussion drafts of remaining sections of the Note;
    *   develop initial discussion drafts of Note sections;
    *   start reporting to the AG WG (schedule and frequency aligned to when groups of SCs are added)
*   Plan: July - June 2023, Actual: August 2023 - July 2024:
    *   incorporate first feedback from TF and AG WG into a (publicly visible) Editors’ Draft;
    *   publish Draft of the updated Working Group Note through the AG WG;
    *   start processing feedback on draft.
*   Plan: July - October 2023, Actual: July - October 2024
    *   process feedback on document, further develop and edit WG Note;
    *   publish updated formal draft, process comments.
*   Plan: November 2023, Actual: November 2024:
    *   Publish updated WCAG2ICT Note.

### Phase 2

> The next phase of updates will include the remaining in-scope work listed in the [Scope of Work[(#scope-of-work) section.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The next phase of updates will include the remaining in-scope work listed in the [Scope of Work](#scope-of-work) section.
```

*   Producing an updated Working Group Note (a form of W3C Technical Report)—following the W3C process under the coordination, review, and approval of the AG WG—that describes:
    *   how each of the new WCAG 2.x A, AA, and AAA success criteria could apply to non-Web ICT;
    *   how each of the new WCAG 2.x guidelines could apply to non-Web ICT;
    *   clarification of challenges of applying particular WCAG 2.x success criteria to non-web ICT, including closed product software;

>     *   address challenges in [Open issues labeled WCAG2ICT](https://github.com/w3c/wcag2ict/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3Awcag2ict);

Author: ```suggestion
    *   address challenges in [Open issues labeled WCAG2ICT](https://github.com/w3c/wcag2ict/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3Awcag2ict); and
```

>     *   provide an explainer that clarifies the usage of WCAG2ICT

Reviewer 4: A high-level explanation will be valuable, but after today's Task Force call I don't think "explainer" is the right word for it. Other [W3C Explainers](https://tag.w3.org/explainers/) are value propositions of an ongoing effort, whose main audience is other W3C members. I'd rather make it an introduction for audiences beyond the W3C, like [this ATAG overview](https://www.w3.org/WAI/standards-guidelines/act/rules/about/) or [this explanation of standards harmonization](https://www.w3.org/WAI/standards-guidelines/harmonization/).

We can decide later whether this introduction will become part of the existing WCAG2ICT Note or a separate document.

```suggestion
    *   provide a concise, high-level overview or introduction to WCAG2ICT, explaining its purpose and how to use it
```

>     *   provide an explainer that clarifies the usage of WCAG2ICT

Author: @mitchellevan I like both of these suggestions and just completed a commit which will incorporate this, your other suggestion to move the Note in the Scope of Work section.  I also made updates to other sections of the work statement that align with this overall direction.

>     *   provide an explainer that clarifies the usage of WCAG2ICT

Author: @mitchellevan When I copied over the headings from the original Explainer Google doc to the new one I changed the heading labeled "Out of Scope for WCAG2ICT" to your suggested "What WCAG2ICT Does Not Do" as I find that much plainer language. Thanks for your suggestion.

Explicitly out of scope for the WCAG2ICT Task Force work are:

*   proposing changes to WCAG 2.x;
*   developing techniques or interpretations of WCAG 2.x for implementing WCAG 2.x in Web technologies;
*   developing any specific, sufficient techniques, including platform-specific techniques, for implementing WCAG 2.x in non-Web ICT, though examples may be in scope;
*   determining whether WCAG, as a whole, _should be_ applied to non-web content;

> *   providing a determination of which success criteria are applicable to a particular non-web technology; and

Reviewer 5: I am of the opinion that this line should be moved to in scope!  (But maybe soften "determination" to recommendation.

Author: @bruce-usab Per the 18 November discussion with the AG WG leadership on changing the scoping and the TF discussion of changes on 21 November, I've made adjustments to the in scope and out of scope bullets.

To efficiently develop the Working Group Note, work may be broken down into sub-groups, under the coordination of the Task Force facilitator(s) following established AG WG procedures for sub-groups.

> The work will be focused in stages to ensure WCAG2ICT content is available in time for use in upcoming updates to regulations and standards (like the EN 301 549) that apply WCAG to non-web technology. This means prioritizing Level A and AA criteria and known issues in the existing Note. WCAG2ICT was published on 4 November 2024 before addressing Level AAA, due to regulatory schedule needs. The next update to WCAG2ICT will address Level AAA success criteria, with republication of the WCAG2ICT Note once they have been incorporated and gone through the W3C review and publication process.

Reviewer 5: "due to regulatory needs" seems a bit ambitious.  Did any regulators/legislators make the ask?

Maybe "due to need for W3C to be proactive to regulation in timely fashion"?

Author: This exact statement was in the original work statement and left unchanged, just changing to add in the date of what was already done.

Reviewer 5: I am okay with original language.

*   Plan: September 2022, Actual: October 2022 
    *   develop a brief requirements document (as inclurporated into the work statement) and obtain agreement from AG WG ;
*   Plan: October 2022 - April 2023, Actual: October 2022 - August 2023 
    *   develop an initial draft with updates to the Working Group Note;
    *   develop initial discussion drafts of remaining sections of the Note;
    *   develop initial discussion drafts of Note sections;
    *   start reporting to the AG WG (schedule and frequency aligned to when groups of SCs are added)
*   Plan: July - June 2023, Actual: August 2023 - July 2024:
    *   incorporate first feedback from TF and AG WG into a (publicly visible) Editors’ Draft;
    *   publish Draft of the updated Working Group Note through the AG WG;
    *   start processing feedback on draft.
*   Plan: July - October 2023, Actual: July - October 2024
    *   process feedback on document, further develop and edit WG Note;
    *   publish updated formal draft, process comments.
*   Plan: November 2023, Actual: November 2024:
    *   Publish updated WCAG2ICT Note.

### Phase 2

The next phase of updates will include any other in-scope work, including:

> * Addition of guidance for Level AAA success criteria. Details of the Phase 2 timeline are found outside of this document. See the [schedule and milestones](https://github.com/w3c/wcag2ict/wiki/Schedule-and-milestones) page in the GitHub WCAG2ICT Wiki.

Reviewer 6: @daniel-montalvo per last week's meeting notes, should this be changed to be further down the list of items in the list?

Reviewer 2: Yes, I think so, as per https://www.w3.org/2024/11/21-wcag2ict-minutes#f10a
